jms -java message service
---------------------------
Java Message Service is an API which supports the formal communication called as messaging between computers on a network.
It provides a common interface for standard message protocols and message services in support to the Java programs.
It provides facility to create, send and read messages. 
The JMS API reduces the concepts that a programmer must learn to use the messaging services/products and it also provides the features that support the messaging applications

benefits of jms
----------------
asynchronous-to recevie a message it need not requried to send the request ,message arrrives automatcally.
reliable-meeage is delivered only once .jms hepls to avoid ploblems that duplicate messages createproblems.

JMS Messaging Domains
----------------------
Before the JMS API existed, most messaging products supported either the point-to-point or the publish/subscribe approach to messaging.
The JMS provides a separate domain for each approach and defines the compliance for each domain.
Any JMS provider can implement both or one domain, it’s his own choice. 
The JMS provides the common interfaces which enables us to use the JMS API in such a way that it is not specific to the either domain.
     point-to-point messaging domain
     --------------------------------
         application is built in basis of message queues,sender and recivers
         Each and every message is addressed to a particular queue
         characteristics of PTP messaging
                   There is only one client for each message.
                   There is no timing dependency for sender and receiver of a message.
                   The receiver can fetch message whether it is running or not when the sender sends the message.
                   The receiver sends the acknowledgement after receiving the message.
                     
      Publish/Subscribe Messaging Domain
      -----------------------------------
         only one message is published which is delivered to all clients through Topic which acts as a bulletin board
         Publishers and subscribers are generally anonymous and can dynamically publish or subscribe to the topic. 
         The Topic is responsible to hold and deliver messages
         The topic retains messages as long as it takes to distribute to the present clients.
          characteristics ofnpublish/Subscribe messaging domain
                   There can be multiple subscribers for a message.
                   The publisher and subscribe have a timing dependency.
                   A client that subscribes to a topic can consume only messages published after the client has created a subscription, and the subscriber must continue to be active in order for it to consume messages.
                   
 Message Consumption
 --------------------
 In JMS, the message consumption can be done in two ways:
 Synchronous
In synchronous message consumption, the subscriber/receiver request the message from the destination by calling the receive() method.
In the receive() method will block till the message arrives or time out if the message does not arrive within a given time. 
Just like normal java method calls with some return value.
        
        Asynchronous
In asynchronous message consumption, a subscriber can register (or subscribe) as message listener with the consumer. The message listener is same as event listener, whenever the message arrives at the destination the JMS provider will deliver the message by calling the listener’s onMessage() method which will act on the content of the message.
jms participating objects
--------------------------
JMS application has some basic building blocks, which are:
  Administered objects – Connection Factories and Destination
  Connections
  Sessions
  Message Producers
  Message Consumers
  Message Listeners
